# Ethics in Tech

## Ethics in the workplace

### [The code I'm still ashamed of](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/the-code-im-still-ashamed-of-e4c021dff55e)

I chose to read *The code I'm still ashamed of*, by Bill Sourour. This was a story about the author, he grew up around code and at the age of 21 found himself working as a developer on a pharmaceutical general information site. The main issue that occured was when he was asked to write code for a quiz, the target audience was teenage girls and it would recommend a specific drug. The problem was that the site was supposed to be about general information not advertisement for this drug. The only way to get out of the recommendation was to answer an allergy question or respond that you were already taking the drug. This was very deceitful, but it didn't resonate with the author until his collegue informed him of a news report of a teenage girl who took her life. Some of the major side effects were depression and suicidal thoughts. His sister happened to be on the drug, he recommended she stopped taking it and soon afterwards left this job. This was a good article to read especially if you want to code for anything healthcare related. The idea of targeting children or teenagers in a negative manner isn't something I'm prepared to do. It really makes you think twice about the consequences of your code. One main point to remember from the artice is that sometimes developers are the "last line of defense" for dangerous/unethical practices.

## Ethics in Technology

### [Self Driving Car Ethics](https://www.freep.com/story/money/cars/2017/11/21/self-driving-cars-ethics/804805001/)

I read *Morality, ethics of a self-driving car: Who decides who lives, dies?*, by Todd Spangler. This article broke down the pros and cons of self-driving cars. While most of the public is excited and anticipating they become more popular a lot of people are concerned and with good reason. The main premises being that a self-driving car cannot make a concience decision in a no-win scenario. Meaning, if there is a situation that places both the passenagers life and pedestrian/other drivers lives at risk, who should the car aim to keep safe? Why? How is this decided/programmed? It is impossible to think of all the scenerios that would require a vehicle to make an ethical decision and programming that could also take a toll on performace. There seems to be a lot of optomistic thinking here, and a lot is left to be sorted by states/courts. I am interesting in seeing how this will develop in the future, I think its something that can no longer be stopped but rather played out. I feel like the main reason to read these articles is to picture how the code written for consumer products(technology) can have a lot of holes when it comes to safety, something worth considering.
